# Hierarchical Semantic Propagation for Object Detection in Remote Sensing Imagery

[Hierarchical Semantic Propagation for Object Detection in Remote Sensing Imagery]([Hierarchical Semantic Propagation for Object Detection in Remote Sensing Imagery | Request PDF (researchgate.net)](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/338616313_Hierarchical_Semantic_Propagation_for_Object_Detection_in_Remote_Sensing_Imagery))

## Abstract

Object detection in remote sensing imagery is a critical yet challenging task in the field of computer vision due to the bird's-eye-view perspective. Although existing object detection approaches in remote sensing imagery have achieved great advances through the utilization of deep features or rotation proposals, but they give insufficient consideration to multilevel semantic information and its propagation for guiding the learning process. Accordingly, in this article, we propose a hierarchical semantic propagation (HSP) framework to boost object detection performance in remote sensing imagery, which is better able to propagate hierarchical semantic information among different components in a unified network. Given a remote sensing image as input, the HSP framework can detect instances of semantic objects belonging to certain categories in an end-to-end way. First, the multiscale representation is captured by a basic feature pyramid network, which can hierarchically combine spatial attention details and the global semantic structure in order to learn more discriminative visual features. Second, the soft-segmentation prediction is used as an auxiliary objective in the intermediate layer of our HSP; its output instance-aware semantic information can be propagated to suppress noisy background information and thereby guide the proposal generation in the region proposal network. By further propagating this hierarchical semantic information into the region of interest module, we can then predict the object category information and the corresponding horizontal and oriented bounding boxes. Comprehensive evaluations on three benchmark data sets demonstrate the superiority of our HSP to the existing state-of-the-art methods for object detection in remote sensing imagery.